README.md, before:

# twaddle

transcribes speech and calculates stats like total spoken words count and 
all frequencies for all words

https://github.com/crucials/twaddle/assets/83793845/758fa9d5-6470-435d-8f72-9c675a8da9fd

## installation

this is a desktop app and it uses your pc resources to convert speech to text:
- transcription with cpu needs around 2.5gb of ram
- transcription with gpu needs around 1.5gb of video ram, cant be used yet

:penguin: [download on linux](https://github.com/crucials/twaddle/releases/download/v1.1.0-beta/twaddle-linux.zip)

🪟 [download on windows](https://github.com/crucials/twaddle/releases/download/v1.1.0-beta/twaddle-windows.zip)

### manual

requires python and pip 

- download the project on the local machine

  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/crucials/twaddle.git
  ```

- move to project's folder, install a shitpile of libraries

  ```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

- launch the ui

  ```bash
  python ./src/start_ui.py
  ```

## other info

built with python eel, vue and faster-whisper as a transcription model

Commit message:

note that vcredist 2015 must be installed on windows in `README.md`

README.md, after:

# twaddle

transcribes speech and calculates stats like total spoken words count and 
all frequencies for all words

https://github.com/crucials/twaddle/assets/83793845/758fa9d5-6470-435d-8f72-9c675a8da9fd

## installation

this is a desktop app and it uses your pc resources to convert speech to text:
- transcription with cpu needs around 2.5gb of ram
- transcription with gpu needs around 1.5gb of video ram, cant be used yet

### linux

:penguin: [download on linux](https://github.com/crucials/twaddle/releases/download/v1.1.0-beta/twaddle-linux.zip)

### windows

requires [visual c++ redistributable 2015](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist) to be installed

🪟 [download on windows](https://github.com/crucials/twaddle/releases/download/v1.1.0-beta/twaddle-windows.zip)

### start manually

requires python and pip 

- download the project on the local machine

  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/crucials/twaddle.git
  ```

- move to project's folder, install a shitpile of libraries

  ```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

- launch the ui

  ```bash
  python ./src/start_ui.py
  ```

## other info

built with python eel, vue and faster-whisper as a transcription model
